			 ---------------------- 
			| Artifact Lore Vol. X |
			| Headgear and Gloves  |
			 ---------------------- 

The Hard Leather Cap of Thranduil
    The hunting cap of King Thranduil, to whose ears come all the secrets of
    his forest domain.

The Metal Cap of Thengel 
    A ridged helmet made of steel, and embossed with scenes of valour in
    fine-engraved silver.  It grants the wearer nobility, clearness of thought
    and understanding.

The Steel Helm of Hammerhand 
    A great helm as steady as the heroes of the Westdike. Mighty were the
    blows of Helm, the Hammerhand!

The Dragon Helm of Dor-Lomin 
    The legendary dragon helm of Turin Turambar, an object of dread to the
    servants of Morgoth.

The Iron Helm 'Holhenneth'
    A famous helm of forged iron granting extraordinary powers of mind and
    awareness.

The Iron Helm of Gorlim
    A headpiece, gaudy and barbaric, that betrayed a warrior when he most
    needed succour.

The Metal Cap of Thorin 
    Mighty was Thorin Oakenshield as he emerged from the Gate of the Lonely
    Mountain on the day of the Battle of the Five Armies, clad in shining
    armour, part of which was this helm. He gleamed like gold in the dying
    fire of the day, red light leapt from his eyes, and his foes were
    terrified at the mere sight of him.

The Iron Helm of Knowledge
    This helm, designed by Petty-Dwarves ages ago to act as the brain of a
    long lost project, is made of finest glass.  Its light banishes all
    secrets, and makes audible whispers from the deceased.

The Metal Cap of Celebrimbor
    This once belonged to Celebrimbor, maker of the Rings of Power.  One who
    knows both fire and acid, from the business of forging and engraving, will
    fear neitheraware of Sauron before Sauron became aware of him, when Sauron
    put on the One Ring for the first time.

The Steel Helm of Gil-galad 
    The shining helm that Gil-galad, legendary Elven-king, wore in battle.

The Iron Crown of Beruthiel
    The midnight-hued steel circlet of the sorceress-queen Beruthiel, which
    grants extraordinary powers of sight and awareness at a terrible physical
    cost.

The Golden Crown of Gondor
    The shining winged circlet brought by Elendil from dying Numenor, emblem
    of Gondor though an age of the world.

The Jewel-Encrusted Crown of Numenor
    A crown of massive gold, set with wondrous jewels of thought and warding,
    worn by the kings of ancient Numenor.  Its wearer may go into battle
    always knowing what he faces - unless his own folly blinds him to the
    nature and magnitude of the task.

The Set of Leather Gloves 'Cambeleg'
    A hero's handgear that lends great prowess in battle.

The Set of Leather Gloves 'Cammithrim'
    These gloves glow so brightly as to light the way for their owner and cast
    magical bolts with great frequency.

The Set of Gauntlets 'Paurhach'
    A fiery set of gauntlets that can even shoot fire from the user's hands.

The Set of Gauntlets 'Paurnimmen'
    A set of handgear so icy as to be able to fire frost bolts.

The Set of Gauntlets 'Pauraegen'
    A set of handgear with sparks surrounding it, able to fire bolts of
    electricity.

The Set of Gauntlets 'Paurnen'
    A set of handgear so corrosive that it may fire bolts of acid.

The Set of Gauntlets 'Camlost' 
    A pair of gauntlets that sap combat ability, named after the empty hand of
    Beren that once clasped a Silmaril.

The Set of Cesti of Fingolfin 
    The hand-sheathing of Fingolfin, warrior-king of Elves and Men, who gave
    Morgoth seven mighty wounds and pain that will last forever.

The Set of Gauntlets of Eol 
    The iron-shod gauntlets of the Dark Elven smith Eol, tingling with magics
    that he could channel in battle.

The Set of Cesti 'Skycleaver'
    The handgear of a legendary dragonslaying hero.  The wearer of these wyrmskin 
    gauntlets will be versed in all aerial ways, and will fear no dragon that walks 
    or flies.