			 ------------------------ 
			| Artifact Lore Vol. VII |
			|      Body Armour       |
			 ------------------------ 

The Leather Scale Mail 'Thalkettoth'
    A tunic and skirt sewn with thick, overlapping scales of hardened leather
    whose wearer moves with agility and assurance.

The Robe of Incanus 
    Gandalf's long, flowing robe.  It provides insight and allows the wearer
    to see things not seen by all.

The Robe of Great Luck 
    Once created by a powerful wizard this robe to grant him incredible
    luck... It seems he forgot to wear it.

The Hard Leather Armour of Himring 
    Contained within this studded cuirass of pliable leather is the memory of
    unvanquished Himring, defiant fortress surrounded by the legions of
    Morgoth.

The Soft Leather Armour 'Hithlomir' 
    Familiar with the secret ways hidden in darkness, this leather cuirass is
    truly more than it appears.

The Robe of Belegaer 
    This pearl-trimmed blue robe was created by a Maia loremaster in Ulmo's
    service.  No ocean storm can harm its wearer or anything he carries; the
    pressure and darkness of deep water cannot hinder him, either.

The Leather Jerkin of Tom Bombadil 
    This garment was once the property of Tom Bombadil - a strange being
    rumoured to be older than Arda itself. It may be the explanation for how
    Tom could always turn up when he was most needed.

The Filthy Rag of Ghan-buri-Ghan 
    The wrappings of a leader among the wild Men of Druadan forest. It
    contains a multitude of tiny pockets filled with small darts dripping with
    venom. 

The Robe of Curunir 
    The white robe of the Istari wizard Curunir, known on Middle-earth as
    Saruman the White and Saruman of Many Colours. Imbued with cold and
    lightning used in the creation of the Fire of Orthanc, it grants the
    wearer some mastery over these elements. 

The Galvorn Plate Mail of Eol 
    A suit of imperishable galvorn, with conquerable strength to endure evil
    and disruptive magics, that protects the life force of its wearer like
    nothing else can. Eol the Dark Elf made it in secret for his son, but
    Maeglin left Nan Elmoth with his mother Aredhel and never got to wear it. 

The Full Plate Armour of Isildur
    A gleaming steel suit covering the wearer from neck to foot, with runes of
    warding and stability deeply engraved into its surface.

The Metal Brigandine Armour of the Rohirrim
    A stiff suit of armour composed of small metal plates sewn to an inner
    layer of heavy canvas, and covered with a second layer of cloth. Within it
    is the spirit of Eorl the Young, matchless in combat.

The Mithril Chain Mail 'Belegennon'
    This wondrous suit of fine-linked chain shimmers as though of pure silver.
    It stands untouched amidst the fury of the elements, and a power of
    concealment rests within.

The Mithril Plate Mail of Celeborn
    A shimmering suit of true-silver, forged long ago by dwarven smiths of
    legend.  It gleams with purest white as you gaze upon it, and mighty are
    it powers to protect and banish.

The Chain Mail of Arvedui 
    A hauberk, leggings, and sleeves of interlocking steel rings, well padded
    with leather. You feel strong and tall as Arvedui, last king of Arnor, as
    you put it on.

The Augmented Chain Mail of Caspanion 
    A hauberk, leggings, and sleeves of interlocking steel rings,
    strategically reinforced at vital locations with a second layer of chain. 
    Magics to enhance body and mind lie within, and no door can hope to resist
    the wearer.

The Chain Mail of Peregrin Took
    This sturdy mail shirt was a gift from the nobility of Gondor to the
    halfling Peregrin Took.  It enables a warrior to fight more capably and
    cling to life when others would be killed. It also reveals enemies
    (especially trolls) hiding in the dark, and terrifies anyone who threatens
    the wearer. 

The Multi-Hued Dragon Scale Mail 'Lothronfaun'
    A massive suit of heavy dragon scales deeply saturated with many colours. 
    It throbs with angry energies. May-cloud it is called, after the element
    lightning which courses with it with unusual vigour.

The Power Dragon Scale Mail 'Loknare' 
    A mighty suit of dragon armour, set with the scales of dragons of both Law
    and Chaos, and with power over both. Loknare means Dragonblaze.