			 ------------------------- 
			| Artifact Lore Vol. XIII |
			|    Amulets and Rings    |
			 ------------------------- 

The Amulet of Carlammas
    A fiery circle of bronze, with mighty spells to ward off evil.
    It is one of two items infused with holy fire.

The Amulet of Ingwe
    The ancient heirloom of Ingwe, high lord of the Vanyar, against whom
    nothing of evil could stand.

The Necklace 'Nauglamir'
    A carencet of gold, set with a multitude of shining gems of Valinor. 
    Despite its size, its weight seems as that of gossamer.

The Blue Stone 'Coimir'
    Called 'Life-jewel' by the Vanyar of old, this flawless sapphire pendant
    bears potent runes that preserve body and soul.

The Elfstone 'Elessar' 
    This green gem glows with inner light.  Aragorn son of Arathorn wore it at
    the Battle of the Pelennor Fields, and he was himself given the name of
    'Elessar' by the people of Gondor because of this.

The Jewel 'Evenstar'
    A pure white jewel, the last gift of Queen Arwen Undomiel to Frodo
    Baggins, intended to be worn around his neck on the chain that had once
    borne the One Ring.

The Necklace of Girion 
    A necklace of emeralds, green as the grass. It once belonged to Girion,
    King of Dale, and was given to the Dwarves of the Lonely Mountain as
    payment for a mithril mail shirt for Girion's son. It seems to have
    overgrown with a strange moss over the years.

The Amulet of Faramir
    A slim neckpiece of True-silver, with quiet spells of Ithilien to aid and
    protect the wearer.

The Ring of Barahir
    A ring shaped into twinned serpents with eyes of emerald meeting beneath a
    crown of flowers, an ancient treasure of Isildur's house.

The Ring of Power 'Narya'
    The Ring of Fire, set with a ruby that glows like flame.  Narya is one of
    the three Rings of Power created by the Elves and hidden by them from
    Sauron.

The Ring of Power 'Nenya'
    The Ring of Adamant, with a pure white stone as centrepiece.  Nenya is one
    of the three Rings of Power created by the Elves and hidden by them from
    Sauron.

The Ring of Power 'Vilya'
    The Ring of Sapphire, with clear blue gems that shine like stars,
    glittering untouchable despite all that Sauron ever wrought.  Vilya is one
    of the three Rings of Power created by the Elves and hidden by them from
    Sauron.

Rumour speaks of other rings of Power, too, as well as of a single ring
whose name is foul and history treacherous.