			 ---------------------- 
			| Artifact Lore Vol. V |
			|    Missile Weapons   |
			 ---------------------- 

The Long Bow 'Belthronding'
    The great bow of Beleg, made of black yew and strung with elven hair that
    faintly shines a pale clear gold.

The Long Bow of Bard
    The great yew bow of grim-faced Bard, who shot the mightiest arrow that
    songs record.

The Light Crossbow 'Cubragol'
    A crossbow that grants fiery speed to he who finds it, and from which
    shoot bolts that blaze with flame unquenchable.

The Sling of the Thain
    This sling was crafted by Faramir I, Thain of the Shire, just in case the
    nasties of his father's stories ever dare to enter the Shire again.

The Sling of Farmer Maggot
    This ordinary seeming leather sling has been raised to legendary status
    amongst generations of hobbit children.  Farmer Maggot's ability to notice
    and strike any mushroom thief anywhere within his patch almost keeps young
    poachers at bay, but once they get within range they soon flee for less
    painful pastures, frequently with rounded pebbles stinging their
    backsides...

The Heavy Crossbow of Umbar
    A great brazen arbalest with arms of gleaming steel, shooting quarrels
    with speed and power for those brave enough to risk betrayal.

The Short Bow of Amrod
    This bow, and its twin, belonged to Feanor's last two twin sons, Amrod and
    Amras, who both hunted with the Green-elves for a time.  Like the twins,
    the bows are similar, for both protect their wielders from the elementsand
    strength, while the other gives quickness and subtlety.

The Short Bow of Amras
    This bow, and its twin, belonged to Feanor's last two twin sons, Amrod and
    Amras, who both hunted with the Green-elves for a time.  Like the twins,
    the bows are similar, for both protect their wielders from the elementsand
    subtlety, while the other gives endurance and strength.

The Light Crossbow of Brand
    The bow of Brand, last King of Dale. It was given to him as a gift by the
    King under the Mountain of Erebor, and has access to an especially secret
    realm of Dwarven lore. 

The Seeker Arrow of Bard
    Deadliest of arrows, imbued with elemental strength, this shaft is feared
    especially by the wyrmkin.

The Seeker Arrow of Gondor
    An arrow that was created to rid the world of demons.

The Seeker Bolt of Feanor
    Made during the war against Morgoth by Feanor, this powerful bolt is the
    bane of Morgoth's power, and has especial strength against those foes who
    are already dead.

The Silver Bolt 'Dailir'
    The beloved dart of Beleg Cuthalion. It never failed to be found unharmed,
    until it broke when Beleg fell upon it while he was carrying Turin
    Turambar away from an Orc-camp, the night Beleg met his end. Turin remade
    the bolt and kept it to his dying day in memory of his friend.

The Metal Boomerang of Beor
    Beor's boomerang makes its wielder as agile as the winds, and as hard to
    harm.

The Metal Boomerang 'Glimdrir'
    A powerful boomerang that makes one agile and fast, with a thirst for evil
    and undead creatures, but demands its wielder not teleport, for fear of
    desertion.

The Long Bow of Legolas
    The great bow of Legolas, one of the Nine Walkers of old. Handcrafted specially 
    for Thranduil's son in Lothlorien, this bow gives clarity of sight and agility 
    to the wielder. 
