			 ---------------------- 
			| Artifact Lore Vol. I |
			|     Edged Weapons    |
			 ---------------------- 

The Main Gauche of Azaghal
    The weapon of Azaghal when he wounded Glaurung.  It is deadly when
    fighting dragons and is said to make the breaths of fire completely
    harmless.

The Main Gauche of Maedhros
    A short thrusting blade with a large guard worn by Maedhros the Tall,
    eldest son of Feanor, and wielded with his left hand after the loss of his
    right hand in the pits of Thangorodrim.

The Broken Dagger 'Angrist'
    The knife Beren Barahir`s son took from Curufin and with which he cut out
    a Silmaril from the crown of Morgoth, The blade snapped and broke when he
    tried to gain one more and the splint hit Morgoth at his chin.  It was
    made of Telchar the dwarf from Nogrod and it could cut through stone. Even
    broken, it retains power. 

The Dagger of Samwise
    A fiery dagger finely balanced for deadly throws.
    It is one of the 3 legendary daggers.

The Dagger of Peregrin
    A frosty dagger finely balanced for deadly throws.
    It is one of the 3 legendary daggers.

The Dagger of Meriadoc
    A dagger covered in sparks and finely balanced for deadly throws.
    It is one of the 3 legendary daggers.

The Dagger of Rilia
    A large stiletto dagger that glistens with odourless poison, to which the
    wearer seems oddly immune.

The Dagger 'Belangil'
    A frosty dagger surrounded in a nimbus of ice with a hilt of elk horn and
    an edge to wound the wind.

The Bastard Sword 'Calris'
    This sword has runes of power incused on its ornate hilt, and a single
    blood channel that gleams coldly blue as you grasp this mighty weapon of
    peril.

The Broad Sword 'Aranruth'
    The beautiful sword of Thingol with a hilt of gold and silver inlay,
    glistening icily enough to freeze the hearts of demons.  You feel supple
    and lightfooted as you hold it.

The Broad Sword 'Glamdring'
    This fiery, shining blade earned its sobriquet "Foe-Hammer" from dying
    orcs who dared to come near hidden Gondolin. Inscribed upon the guard in
    Cirth is the followinggd daedheloth, dam an Glamhoth." - "Turgon King of
    Gondolin wields, has and holdsthe sword Glamdring, foe of Morgoth's realm,
    hammer to the Din-horde."

The Broad Sword 'Orcrist'
    This coldly gleaming blade is called simply "Biter", by orcs who came to
    know its power all too well.

The Two-Handed Sword 'Anglachel'
    A giant sword once wielded by mighty Turin, and a great dragonbane which
    bathed in Glaurung's blood. Its blade once shone brightly, it can cleave
    iron as though it is old wood. Beleg Cuthalion chose this sword from the
    armoury of Thingol in Doriath. Turin son of Hurin slew his friend Beleg
    with it by accident, and since then the blade is black and dull. 

The Two-Handed Sword 'Zarcuthra'
    Dark and deadly runes stand stark against the naked steel of this awesome
    weapon, and you feel a stunning power of slaying and rending as you slowly
    approach.

The Dark Sword 'Mormegil'
    A foul, twisted sword with blackened spines and knobs, whose very name is
    a curse upon the lips of Elves and Men.

The Cutlass 'Gondricam'
    Famed sea-defender of Lebennin.  A short, slightly curved chopping blade 
    with a perfect edge shining cleanly in the sun, an object of hate to the
    men of Umbar who met it in combat.

The Executioner's Sword 'Crisdurian'
    A giant's weapon, with a long blade tall and straight thrusting out from a
    massive double-pronged hilt.  On its blade are written doomspells against
    both the living and undead.

The Long Sword 'Ringil'
    The weapon of Fingolfin, High King of the Noldor; it shines like a column
    of ice lit by light unquenchable.  Morgoth came but unwillingly to meet it
    of old; his lame foot will remind him of its might should he meet it again.

The Long Sword 'Anguirel'
    Forged of black galvorn by the Dark-Elven smith Eol, this blade has the
    living lightning trapped inside.

The Long Sword 'Elvagil'
    The "Singing Blade", whose wearer can slay Orcs and Trolls in the hidden
    and secret places of the earth.

The Rapier 'Forasgil'
    A slender, tapered blade whose wielder strikes icy blows with deadly
    accuracy.

The Sabre 'Careth Asdriag'
    An heirloom of the Lords of Rhun far to the east, and a name of dismay to
    creatures natural and unnatural.

The Short Sword 'Sting' 
    The perfect size for Bilbo, and stamped forever by the courage he found in
    Mirkwood, this sturdy little blade grants the wearer combat prowess and
    survival abilities they did not know they had. The blade is inscribed with
    Tengwar writing "Sting is my name, I am the spiders' bane."

The Scimitar 'Haradekket'
    A damascened scimitar that seems wondrously easy to hold.  Famed in song
    as the "Sickle of Harad", and a deadly foe to the undead.

The Short Sword 'Gilettar'
    A stubby blade worn by Beren, whose horn sounded of old in the glades of
    Brethil. 

The Blade of Chaos 'Daedheloth'
    This weapon of wrath is named after the realm of Morgoth Bauglir. Cursed
    with a violent anger, dives hungrily into the flesh of its enemies. It
    gathers shadows of death into its owner as they inflict wounds that will
    never heal.

The Long Sword 'Sereghathol' 
    Blood-Sword it is called, after its thirst for the blood of foes. 

The Long Sword of Angmar 
    Dark flames wreath the naked steel of the Witch-King of Angmar.  A mighty
    curse to all those who wield it apart from its master, the torture of the
    wraithworld awaits those who dare.

The Broken Sword 'Narsil'
    These are the shards of the mighty blade of Isildur, which deprived the
    dark lord Sauron of The One Ring of Power. Legend has it that the sword
    that was broken shall be reforged. You can barely make out a Tengwar
    inscription on the pommel, reading "Narsil essenya, macil meletya;Telchar
    carneron Navarotesse." - "Narsil is my name, a mighty sword;Telchar made
    me in Nogrod."

The Long Sword of Dernhelm
    Eomer's sister Eowyn once wielded this shining sword when she battled
    the Witch-King of Angmar, hiding her true identity to join the battle. 
    Others are less likely to notice the wielder immediately.  Eowyn's sword
    also allowed her to move swiftly, sense powerful enemies, inflict terrible
    wounds, and partly withstand the worst attacks of the Nazgul.

The Bluesteel Blade 'Ancanaur'
    "The Jaws of Fire", this is the sword that Feanor forged in secret to do
    battle against his enemies. The sword which threatened Fingolfin, the
    sword which in the end did not prevent its owner's untimely death.

The Broad Sword 'Guthwine'
    The sword of Eomer, son of Eomund, leader of the Riders of the Mark. As
    one flashed this sword with Anduril during a battle long ago. Legendary
    are its powers in the rallying of desperate troops.

The Long Sword 'Herugrim'
    The ancient blade of Theoden, King of the Mark. It was taken from the king
    by Grima the Wormtongue, and hidden from him in a dusty chest. It was once
    instrumental in restoring the King's wits from evil bewitchment.

The Bluesteel Blade of Ephel Duath
    This filthy orc-blade is famed for vile deeds of torture and blood, and its 
    wielder will never cease to fear treachery.
