			 ------------------------- 
			| Artifact Lore Vol. VIII |
			|          Cloaks         |
			 ------------------------- 

The Cloak 'Holcolleth'
    This elven-grey mantle possesses great powers of tranquility and of
    concealment, and grants the wearer the knowledge and understanding of the
    Sindar.

The Cloak of Thingol
    A sable-hued cloak, with glowing elven-runes to restore magic showing calm
    and clear as moonlight on still water.

The Cloak of Thorongil
    A cloak of shimmering green and brown that grants sight beyond sight and
    shakes off holding magics, worn by Aragorn son of Arathorn in his youth as
    he adventured under the name of Thorongil.

The Cloak 'Colannon'
    A crystal-blue cape of fine silk worn by a silent messenger of the forces
    of Law. Somehow, its wearer is always able to escape trouble.

The Shadow Cloak of Luthien 
    The opaque midnight folds, inset with a multitude of tiny diamonds, of
    this cloak swirl around you and you feel a hint, a fragment of the
    knowledge and power to restore that lay in Luthien, the most beautiful
    being that ever knew death.

The Shadow Cloak of Tuor 
    From the ruin of Gondolin did Tuor escape, through secret ways and
    travail, shielded by his cloak from a multitude of hostile eyes.

The Elven Cloak of Peregrin Took
    This simple-looking cloak, dyed in hues that blend into the woodlands, was
    a gift from the elves of Lothlorien to the halfling Peregrin Took.  Its
    wearer has an uncanny knack for making friends, escaping bonds, moving
    among enemies completely unseen - and finding food.

The Cloak 'Menelcol'
    This deep-blue velvet cloak, embroidered with silvery stars, sheds
    acelestial light that reveals hidden things and bestows unearthly beauty. 
    It also wards off damage from elements of the skies, and allows the wearer
    to fly unscathed even through airless space.

The Cloak of Ghan-buri-Ghan 
    This dark-coloured cloak once belonged to the leader of the Druedain. As
    you put it on, you feel safer from attempts to waylay you on your travels. 

The Cloak of Valinor
    A magical cloak that grants the wearer ultimate protection.

The Elven Cloak of Mellyrn
    Bearing the same lyrical name as the great trees of Lothlorien and containing 
    in its close-woven folds the speed and skill of the Galadhrim, this grey cloak 
    is ideal for those who travel in forests.
