			 ----------------------- 
			| Artifact Lore Vol. IX |
			|   Shields and Boots   |
			 ----------------------- 

The Small Mithril Shield of Thorin
    Invoking the strength and endurance of Thorin, King under the Mountain,
    this little metal shield is proof against the Element of Earth.

The Large Leather Shield of Celegorm 
    This shield emblazoned with a multitude of creatures not seen for ages
    once protected Celegorm, lord of Himlad; around it lies a mystic balance
    that contains the conflicts of the elements.

The Large Metal Shield of Anarion
    The great metal-bound shield of Anarion, son of Elendil, who Sauron found
    himself powerless to wither or diminish.

The Small Metal Shield of Gimli
    A gift from the King of Rohan to Gimli the Dwarf, this shield combines the 
    cunning and stamina of Gimli Elf-friend, Gimli the Lock-bearer.

The Shield of Deflection of Gil-galad 
    The legendary shield of Gil-Galad, who fought his way to the gates of the
    Dark Tower, and with whom came light even to Gorgoroth.

The Large Leather Shield of the Haradrim
    A great shield from the far lands of the South, whose wielder will go
    charging into battle heedless of danger, with the strength and endurance
    of a madman. Nor will he fear poison, for the Southron barbarians handle
    poisoned darts naturally.

The Mithril Shield of Earendil 
    A shining shield, once borne by the great mariner Earendil, "scored with
    runes to keep all wounds and harm from him".

The Large Metal Shield of Erkenbrand
    Tall and strong stood Erkenbrand, Lord of the Westfold, as he rode to combat 
    the forces of Isengard. The valour of Helm Hammerhand lived again in him. 
    This shield is painted red according to Rohan custom and it grants magical 
    protection against enemy projectiles, as well as lets the wearer sense 
    approaching enemy hordes.

The Pair of Soft Leather Boots of Wormtongue
    The pair of boots used by Grima son of Galmod, also named the Wormtongue - a
    treacherous but persuasive counsellor, ever ready to betray, sneak, lie,
    cheat and steal - but never ready to actually fight.

The Pair of Hard Leather Boots of Feanor
    This wondrous pair of leather boots once sped Feanor, creator of the
    Silmarils and the mightiest of the Eldar, along the Grinding Ice and to
    Middle-earth at last.

The Pair of Soft Leather Boots 'Dal-i-thalion'
    A pair of high-laced shoes, strong against the powers of corruption and
    withering, that grant the wearer extraordinary agility.

The Pair of Metal Shod Boots of Thror
    Sturdy footwear of leather and steel as enduring as the long-suffering
    Dwarven King-in-exile who wore them.  Of dwarven make, the wearer of these
    boots will be completely at home in the mountains.

The Pair of Hard Leather Boots of Nevrast
    Footgear made of bear leather and set with opals, which grant the wearer
    silent, hasted movement.

The Pair of Metal Shod Boots of Gimli 
    A set of iron-shod boots stamped by Gimli's combat prowess, a peerless
    ally to those journeying through halls of stone under mountains.

The Pair of Metal Shod Boots of the Machine
    A massive pair of adamantite boots studded with gold, the final and greatest 
    product of the petty-dwarven magical forge. Despite the great powers they 
    contain, they are heavy and awkward enough to make quite a racket whenever 
    you move.
